Basic Usage
===========

Signals are the main mechanic for modeling dataflow in alia, and they're
introduced on the [Feature Overview](feature-overview.md) page. If you haven't
already, you should read that before continuing on here.

Signal Objects
--------------

It's important to understand that although signals are conceptually values that
vary over time and persist across frames of an application, actual alia signal
objects are generally just transient interfaces to the underlying signal. It's
common to create signal objects on the stack, when and where they're needed, and
even adapt/compose them on the spot to create more interesting signals. For
example, assuming we have some floating point variable `x` that represents some
persistent application state, we might write code like this:

```cpp
do_input(ctx, scale(direct(x), 100));
```

`direct(x)` creates a signal object that directly exposes the variable `x` as a
signal. `scale(direct(x), 100)` presents a view of `x` scaled up by a factor of
100 (as another signal object), which is then passed into `do_input` to allow
the user to edit it. (This might be done because the user wants to edit `x` as a
percentage, while in code we want it as a simple ratio.)

Remember that that line of code lives in a function that is reinvoked on every
update, so while `x` persists across the lifetime of the application, the signal
objects created by `direct()` and `scale()` *do not.* They're created on the
stack solely for the purpose of exposing `x` to `do_input`, and they cease to
exist between updates. And, of course, `x` is the only real *state* here, so `x`
is all that really *needs* to persist between frames.

It's a general principle in alia that objects shouldn't persist across frames
without a good reason &mdash; after all, it would just mean more objects to keep
synchronized &mdash; so this is the most common way to work with signals in
alia. For the sake of brevity, this documentation refers to these transient
signal objects simply as 'signals', and from a conceptual standpoint, it's
perfectly fine to think of `scale(direct(x), 100)` as representing a persistent
signal that changes over time, but for the purpose of actually understanding
what's going on in your code, it's also helpful to be aware that there's no
actual persistent C++ object associated with that signal.

Directionality
--------------

The documentation below will describe signals as either 'read-only' or 'duplex'.
Just like raw C++ values can be either const or non-const, signals have a
*directionality* component to their type that indicates how they allow data to
flow. While read-only signals only allow you to read the value that they carry,
*duplex* signals *also* allow you to *write* a value back along the signal.

Basic Constructors
------------------

The following functions allow you to construct basic signals from raw C++
values. These are perfect for bringing in small values from your application
data: booleans, numbers, small strings, and perhaps small data structures.
However, all of them rely on making copies and invoking the equality operator to
detect changes in the values they carry, so they're generally not the best
choice for large data structures unless those structures are especially
efficient at these operations.

<dl>

<dt>value(T x)</dt><dd>

Returns a *read-only* signal carrying the value `x`.

Internally, the signal stores a *copy* of the value.
<dd>

<dt>direct(T& x)</dt><dd>

Returns a *duplex* signal carrying the value `x`.

Internally, the signal stores a *reference* to the value.
</dd>

<dt>direct(T const& x)</dt><dd>

Returns a *read-only* signal carrying the value `x`.

Internally, the signal stores a *reference* to the value.
</dd>

</dl>

The Empty Signal
----------------

Occasionally, it's useful to create a signal that never carries a value.

<dl>

<dt>empty&lt;T&gt;()</dt><dd>

Returns a signal that type checks as a readable signal carrying a value of type
`T` but never actually carries a value.

</dd>

</dl>

State Signals
-------------

Sometimes you need some temporary, local state somewhere in your UI, for example
to capture the open/closed state of a tree node, the selected item in a list, or
the name of a new item that the user is going to add to the list. Thanks to
alia's data graph, you can make this state appear where you need it by calling
`get_state`:

<dl>

<dt>get_state(ctx, initial_value)</dt><dd>

Returns a duplex signal that references some temporary, local state.

`initial_value` can be another signal or a raw value. It determines the value
type of the state and supplies the initial value. If `initial_value` is a signal
that has no value, the state is initially empty. It will get a value when one is
explicitly written to it or when `initial_value` produces a value (whichever
comes first). Once the state has a value, `initial_value` is ignored. (The state
won't change in response to changes in `initial_value`.)

</dd>

</dl>
